Friends, hello everyone.  My name is Valera,
and today we'll talk about
traveling in Russia.  Specifically, today
we will talk about Adeigea, about my
trip to this region.  And I will show you
photographs and tell you
what is different,
what stands out, what is unusual about
this region.  So, let's start with the fact that
Adegeya is a republic that
is part of Russia, part of the
Russian Federation.
It is located in the Caucasus, not far from the
Black Sea, not far from the city of Sochi,
not far from Georgia, yes, not far from
Armenia.  The capital of the republic is the city of
Maykop.  I ended up in Adygea in April of
this year and was there for a whole month and a half
, April and half of May.  What did I
see there?  I saw beautiful forests,
wonderful, beautiful stormy rivers.
And somewhere in the distance there are very, very high
mountains.  The Republic of Adegea is not located where the
highest mountains are.  The
highest mountains are in the east,
to the east.  I don't know which way to
point you.  In general, north-south,
respectively, will be
west-east for you here.  In general, I'm already confused,
but the highest mountains of the Caucasus are located
to the east and south, and where the
Republic of Adygea is located, there are much
denser forests.  That is, there are dense,
beautiful, ancient forests there.  There
are also mountain rivers there, along which people go every year
on boats, rafts, canoes, in
general, on a variety of boats, uh, with
oars.  Unfortunately, I was unable to
raft, that is, go down the
river.  I haven't been on a boat on the river, but
they say it's very, ah, exciting,
but I must say it's dangerous.
If you don't know
the river, if you don't know where you
are, then there is a possibility
that you can drown, because the river is
very turbulent, very active, very
fast and, therefore, very
dangerous.  Not only does it descend quickly
, but it also twists and turns
on its way.  Plus there is a very large
number of stones, boulders, cobblestones,
rocks that you cannot see, or
you can see them, but the river will flow
right onto these rocks.  Therefore, it is very
dangerous without an escort.
without professionals.  It is very dangerous
to do this.  But let's not talk about the bad.  I arrived
there when there was still snow.  That is, I
arrive at an altitude of 2 km,
well, that is, 2,000 m, maybe a little more,
I don’t remember.
Silence,
nature,
squirrels and snow.  We went to different
areas.  Adegeya, we've been everywhere.
We went to the mountains, to caves, grottoes,
and we were where ancient people lived.
So imagine it's
2025 now, and people were already living there 6-7,000
years ago.  That is, 5,000 years
BC.
We saw a fox, we saw a raccoon, we
even saw a bison, which, admittedly, was
in an enclosure, well, fenced in,
but nevertheless we saw the calling
card, the main attraction of
this region.  And who is Zubr?
If you know that there are bison in America,
then there are also bison in Europe
.  So, this bison is special, it is
from here, from the Caucasus, that is, it is a
Caucasian bison.  There are several
types of them.  And I won’t go into too much detail about this
.  That is, I won’t tell you in detail
, but I want to show you it in
two frames.  Look, the
hikes themselves, that
is, the hikes into the mountains, were very impressive.  We took backpacks with us
, yes, we put on a backpack in which
we had food for us and for our fellow travelers.
Food, thermoses with tea.
medicines, if suddenly they come in handy,
yes, medicine, that is, pills, ointments,
some other things.
And we, with these backpacks,
dressed in hiking clothes, walked into these
mountains, overcame all these obstacles,
climbed up, wind, good or
bad weather, it didn’t matter.  We went up to
see such
beauty.
And for a month and a half, almost every day,
we went either to see views like these, where a
valley with different mountains opens up before you, or we went
into the forests, where we looked at trees on the table,
that is, trees that were 100
years old or more.
We went into caves where we
turned off our flashlights, yes, the light, and
sat there in complete silence.  That is, like
this, you close your eyes, you close your
eyes, you open your eyes, and with your
eyes open it is darker than with your eyes closed.  Darker
than with closed ones.  Because when you
close your eyes, your brain gives you
some kind of picture.  You see something, but
when you open it, it's
completely dark.  I have never in my life
seen, if I may say so, if I
may say so, such pitch-black, complete
darkness.  Nothing.  You hold your hand like
this, like this in front of your nose.  You don't see
this hand.
You sit in silence and hear the
drops falling in the cave one after another in different
places.
This is an incomparable feeling.
It was like going to see a psychologist.
You know, it's exactly that feeling,
very calming.
And the air in the caves is also very good.  That
means you breathe really cool,
cool, humid air.
And if you have problems with your lungs,
problems with your respiratory system, that is,
you have difficulty breathing, caves are the best thing
.  You can heal in the caves.  That
is, it has, it gives, yes, a healing
effect.  Therapeutic effect.
Yeah.  Well, for the whole of these six weeks, we were
faced with,
well, unpredictable weather.
Unpredictable.  That is, every day we
woke up and didn’t know what the weather
would be like today.
So you look at the weather forecast.
Weather forecast, yes, what will the weather be like
tomorrow?  What will happen tomorrow?  And
in the morning you see a completely different,
opposite situation.  So you were told
that the weather would be sunny and warm.
You go outside in the morning, right?  I went
outside in the morning and there was snow.  Like this.  I sat my leg
out.  Uh,
sat on your leg - this is when you
sat with your
butt on your leg for a long, long time, and then you can’t
feel it.  This is called, even now it
hurts to sit on my leg.  Sit out with your leg.
What else is special about mountains?  And which surprised me
as an inexperienced person
.  an inexperienced person.  This is
like me, who hasn’t been in the mountains much.  That
is, I have seen few mountains, I have lived there little, I
know little about mountains.  Oh, and I can say
that I'm unbitten.  Yes, inexperienced
means a person who can be surprised
by simple things that for locals or
for those who have been doing something for a long time, do not
seem to be anything unusual.  That is, if
you come
to the Arctic and see a
temperature of -60 on the thermometer,
you, as an inexperienced person, will be
surprised.
But for the people who live there, the polar explorers,
yes,
for them this is a normal thing, it’s an ordinary
day.  There is nothing surprising about this.
That's why there is such a word, yes,
inexperienced.  Or, on the contrary,
sophisticated.  Let's move on.  One of the
amazing things about the mountains is that the
weather changes depending on the altitude.  That is, mm, there was
a village here, that is, it is a small town, a
small town, and from which,
in fact, everyone goes to the mountains, from which
everyone goes up to the mountains.
There are mountains here,
we live here.  It's hot and dry here.
Here we have snow, and here
the wind is blowing.  Either it's raining here, or it's
windy and clear there.  And this is how it can
be.  The difference in elevation is
one and a half kilometers, one and a half kilometers.  If you
go to Adygea as a tourist, what
should you try and see there?   The
first and most important thing we will
start with is Adege cheese.  It
exists in several types.
You should try them all if you
go there because they are all different
and all really delicious.
Next up is Adegean beer.  It
goes well with Adeyghe cheese.
And then there are Adyghe herbal teas, that is,
not even Adyghe, yes, not
Adyghe, but Caucasian herbal teas,
because such a wide
variety of herbs grow there, different herbs,
field, mountain, which are then
put
in a teapot and brewed with
boiling water, that is, hot water.  And the
result is herbal tea.  Also be
sure to try the halush.  This is an
Adyghe, well, essentially a flat pie
with cheese.  Okay, what is there to see,
what is there to see?  The first is the
Belaya River, which captivated me.  It is called white
because it
seethes so violently,
descends from the mountain so sharply, that it foams, that
is, the water hits the rocks, and the river
turns white.  And the specific
location of this white river is a granite
canyon.  Granite, yes, because granite is a
stone, yes, such a canyon.  That is, this is the
gorge in which this river flows.
You can even get there by car.  That means it's
very easy to get there.  And the views are
unforgettable.  Next, be sure to
visit the Guzeripol Ecopark, where
, by the way, you will also find the
Caucasian bison that I saw.
It's such a big machine, a big
animal.
which, well, you need to see it live,
really see it live with your own eyes
at least once in your life.  It
must also be said that there is a very beautiful
forest there.  That is, there are very large, tall
trees there, they are very wide, they are very
tall.   There
are paths there, which means it is
very convenient to walk there.  It's very simple, easy
and pleasant, so be sure to visit
Guzeripol.  The next no less
beautiful place is Platogonaki.   It
would be more correct to call it the
Laganaki Highlands, but everyone
calls it a plateau.  Laganaki Plateau,
right?  And what is the beauty of this plateauganaki?
What is the main feature?  What is most
interesting?  What's worth going there for?
Why go there?
You walk slowly upstairs.  It's not that
difficult, but you go, go, go.   There are vast
spaces around you.  To the left, to the right, you
can see a lot of, uh,
beautiful fields.  Yes, fields, fields.  It would be
easier to say that these are fields.  And in the end
you come out to such a beautiful view.
[music]
Now imagine that you
unpack your backpack there, open
your backpack, take out food from there,
sit down and eat with a view of this
incredible beauty.  How do you like it?  And the
last place I will tell you about,
which struck me to the depths of my soul,
is the caves.  The first time I
went down into the cave, I had
the feeling that I had entered another world,
another dimension, that I was not
at all in Russia, I was not
in this world.
We went lower and lower without
flashlights, yes, without headlamps,
which are here on the head.  Forehead, yes,
headlamps, without
headlamps and helmets we would have had a
very hard time there.  To be more precise, it would
be more correct to say, it would be more accurate to say.
Without helmets we would have had a hard time,
because we had to almost crawl, that
is, make our way, and the stalota
hit us on the head.
But without flashlights
we would have gotten lost there, because there is a
labyrinth there, it is difficult to find the
way back without a flashlight.  I also want to say that
during this trip I was accompanied by
good people.  People with whom I
wanted to go on these hikes, with whom
I felt comfortable being, who
helped me, and I helped them.  And this
trip left an indelible impression on me
and memories for life.
Ah, well, how could I forget?  We saw
waterfalls.
We saw such narrow and high
waterfalls,
low and wide ones, which descended so
powerfully, with a large amount of water.  Very
beautiful.
And I haven't seen many waterfalls in my
life.  I have seen very few waterfalls in
my life.  And there I saw
six, seven waterfalls, maybe
more.  I can't even remember now.  I ca
n't remember now.  But it's so beautiful.
Imagine a forest.  You walk and walk and then you
come out onto a beautiful lawn, a
beautiful clearing,
at the head of which, at the beginning, in the very
middle, in the very middle, there is
a waterfall.  It's an incredible sight.
Friends, thank you for watching
this video to the end.  See you in new videos.
I hope you enjoyed it.  Bye everyone and
see you in Adygea.